Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good morning.
Donna Jochimsen: Good morning, Rebecca.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How are you
Donna Jochimsen: I'm a little bit tired. Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What's going on.
Donna Jochimsen: Oh, it has
Donna Jochimsen: Just been a really bad week
Donna Jochimsen: My dad, but it might get a little bit better.
Donna Jochimsen: they've discovered after I don't know a couple of years. I'm treating him for constipation and other odd things that he actually has gallstones.
Donna Jochimsen: Which would be one why he's his stomach hurts so bad. So they. Yeah, they did surgery on him. What was I think Thursday night, I believe, or Friday morning he went in Thursday night Friday morning and he came home Sunday.
Donna Jochimsen: Nice and seems to be feeling better.
Donna Jochimsen: Than
Donna Jochimsen: That had been an ongoing issue for about two years. We actually thought that he was being a hypochondriac, that there wasn't really anything wrong with me, just wanted attention that was true.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, I'm glad they figured it out. Two years later,
Donna Jochimsen: Yep. Two years later,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What happened that made them finally start searching for
Donna Jochimsen: You know I don't know I don't know I didn't. It was for one thing, it was a different doctor, we were taking him into the we've taken him into the emergency room, I think, about four times in the last year, just in the last one year and
Donna Jochimsen: Be treated him for, I think, what is that divert. Wait a minute.
Donna Jochimsen: Yes, that that is it twice. And then the third time, they decided that it was a constipation. And so we, you know, started giving him big amounts of fiber and everything that we could think of to get do and it still was happening.
Donna Jochimsen: And like I said, we sort of thought that maybe it was dad trying to get attention because there's always something wrong. I forgot to turn my volume down like that.
Donna Jochimsen: So other things coming in. Well,
Donna Jochimsen: Wait a minute, I want that. All right.
Donna Jochimsen: Okay.
Donna Jochimsen: Anyway, you are there. Okay.
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah, yeah. Anyway, this we went in as time and they looked a lot further and discovered that he had gallstones. So they removed it. And he seems to be while he's a little cranky, but he seems to be feeling better.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good, and you
Donna Jochimsen: I'm doing pretty good. I've actually had probably more time off, and I've had in a long, long time because he was in the hospital for two days. So I had a little bit of downtime, which I haven't had a lot of and I see, okay, and I did do the do the women for sobriety group.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh, good. Yeah.
Donna Jochimsen: It was a little bit strange. I've never, I've never actually done a chat like that live, you know,
Donna Jochimsen: parties involved, but I'll get used to it and I liked what I saw, I really do. They're very positive.
Donna Jochimsen: You know,
Donna Jochimsen: And, you know, just I really liked it. The facilitator did a really good job of keeping things in line and that was good.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, good.
Donna Jochimsen: Good, good. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, good. Um, and was there a lot of people
Donna Jochimsen: Well, there was there was several there was probably close to 10 I think
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good, yeah. Yeah, good. The more the better. You know, really, because you can sit back and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, just kind of watch and monitor and, you know, put your two cents in the great part about it is it's not in person. And so, you know, kind of helps with the anxiety anxiety piece of this whole thing, you know.
Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you know, you don't have to feel like you're being judged don't have to feel like you're being watched. It's not awkward walking in. However, it is an awkward going into, you know, that can dissipate. Yeah.
Donna Jochimsen: Well, I have a meeting.
Donna Jochimsen: That I go to. As a matter of fact, I'm going to go at noon today, but so I do have an in person group also
Donna Jochimsen: Okay, good.
Donna Jochimsen: That I've been doing for quite a while.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And how have you been managing and regulating your emotions.
Donna Jochimsen: Well, I've been a while. I've been walking a lot more than I usually do the weather. It's finally been nice. Like I said dad was in the hospital. I had more time.
Donna Jochimsen: So I had to. I had some catching up to do. I had a lot of laundry and all that crap. But when I got done with that i i walk. I spent some time talking to a friend that I haven't talked to you for a while.
Donna Jochimsen: I talked to all of my kids last week every one of them.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And
Donna Jochimsen: We all had come from conversations
Donna Jochimsen: I see I did my meeting, I've
Donna Jochimsen: Definitely been trying to practice practice mindfulness, not just while I'm walking it. It's gonna take me some practice to do
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Sure, yeah, it does everybody you know
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But the more that you practice it, the easier it gets.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It just takes time. Yeah, I've noticed
Donna Jochimsen: More comfortable with it, but it's hard to be focused
Donna Jochimsen: You know, and not let my wife, my mind go backwards or forwards, just be focused on what's going on now.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, okay, good. Um,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What else has been going on.
Donna Jochimsen: Oh I quit smoking. How about that on
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Thursday was my
Donna Jochimsen: Well, Thursday I had been planning on doing this for quite some time.
Donna Jochimsen: It didn't ever. It just didn't ever work out. Right. I didn't have the patches or whatever. But I had picked Thursday, which was actually the anniversary of my husband's death and to honor him and and my kids I had decided to quit smoking, so I haven't had a cigarette, since Wednesday.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Wow. Congratulations. How's it going,
Donna Jochimsen: You know a lot better than I thought. I think I don't know I had completely made up my mind I wasn't wishy washy about whether or not I wanted to do it.
Donna Jochimsen: It makes me an outcast. None of nobody in my family smokes, but me.
Donna Jochimsen: I'm always the only one. And I absolutely hate it and I don't I'm getting ready to go up to see my granddaughter's excellent
Donna Jochimsen: And I really don't want to have to be sneaking out behind the
Donna Jochimsen: Building smoking, you know,
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah, I don't want, I never want to be anywhere near them. When I was smoking so
Donna Jochimsen: That means I have to go quite a ways away because they're teenagers.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh, yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: They can catch on. They'll smell it. The minute
Donna Jochimsen: They knew. They knew. I know that they knew, but I just
Donna Jochimsen: Never wanted to ever be able to do it in front of them, you know, but they're very happy to
Donna Jochimsen: Donate all for all everybody's happy that I quit smoking.
Donna Jochimsen: Which is, it's about time, but
Donna Jochimsen: It's actually way.
Donna Jochimsen: way easier than I thought. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Have, are you on the patch or
Donna Jochimsen: I'm on the patch. I've got I bought about $20 worth of hard candies and I've been going through them. I probably will gain a little way it out of this.
Donna Jochimsen: Okay, so I admit I've made this Oreo desert thing and ate the whole damn thing by myself not at one sitting. But usually I would have had a piece and give them the rest away this time I kept it and I ate it at
Donna Jochimsen: That wasn't very that wasn't the most pleasant thing I've ever done actually sick.
Donna Jochimsen: I don't like I don't like sweet things that much, but I just felt the need to eat.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Understandable. You know, when you feel like that, having healthy foods in your house and trying to
Yeah.
Donna Jochimsen: This desert thing i i don't know what i think maybe I got it in a food bank like a couple years ago.
Donna Jochimsen: It's been sitting down under my cupboard for a really long time but
Donna Jochimsen: I one night I was just like, God, I just want something sweet and I didn't have anything else. So I pulled that out and I thought it was pretty good, actually.
Donna Jochimsen: But not the whole thing. It took me a couple of days. But I did eat it all. I'm like, oh, that's got to be about 10 pounds.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, you know, especially right now, you know cigarettes are the hardest thing to to let go of and especially right now giving yourself permission to be okay with eating that you know whole dessert.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what it was.
Donna Jochimsen: What I needed to do. I didn't, I didn't smoke.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yes. See, you know, and just being mindful about what you're putting in your body from from this place forward one of the doctors that I work with told me that, um, it takes about three days to get
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Rid of the cravings for sugar.
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah.
Donna Jochimsen: I was definitely craving sugar I and I
Donna Jochimsen: Never do
Donna Jochimsen: That's not something that I crave sugar but I definitely was craving sugar.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And so, yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's definitely something to pay attention to. Because I think that's also a big fear for a lot of people. I don't want to quit smoking, because then I'm going to gain weight or, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And because that's the big thing that everyone tells you you're going to gain weight. Well, they don't realize it's because you're trying to, you know, your body's going hey wait a minute.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Where's that substance.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right, I need that substance and don't forget the hand of mouth to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Begin with it all. And how long have you been smoking.
Donna Jochimsen: Oh, a long time about 40 years. Hello.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That pattern of this you know that hand of mouth thing is really
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I know
Donna Jochimsen: It is really, really killer Carmel Apple Carmel Apple suckers.
Donna Jochimsen: They help a lot. It especially when it had mouth thing.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good. You've got a lot of good things going on, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And how's your anxiety been
Donna Jochimsen: It's been pretty low.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Which is good. Yep, you're going to enter
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You're doing, you know, more things engaging with more people.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Totally stepping outside your box, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And that's progress that's big progress for you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Tell me how
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Getting active in your recovery in your life, how is that, how has that affected your emotion regulation.
Donna Jochimsen: Well, it's I have not had any what I would consider like severe emotions like real depression or overly happy. I haven't had I haven't had that. So I haven't had to think about it too much because it just hasn't been there, you know, I assume that sometime that I'll still have that, but
Donna Jochimsen: Or at least, occasionally, you know, something will get me excited about, you know, yeah.
Donna Jochimsen: They're really nervous or really depressed or whatever and
Donna Jochimsen: You know, I haven't worried about that too much because like I said, I've not been feeling like you know like, yo, yo, emotions like I like I do a lot
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah. When you stay busy, you don't have time to focus on
Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All of those things. And so it kind of helps regulate them naturally and then learning how to be mindful in when you start feeling it. Come on, being able to say, Okay, I know what's getting ready. You know, I know what's coming. And so really changing starting to change that mindset.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: This is okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, and then going back at you know taking a quick inventory. I have a roof over my head. I have food in my mouth, I have this I have this, you know, I'm doing everything I can for myself.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Really kind of helps gain perspective of what's really going on, you know, because, yeah, you know, a thought and a feeling there's a beginning, middle, and an end. If you allow it to go through this process.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, so there's that. And don't forget that you're, you know, when you start feeling especially when it comes around your husband.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know your losses. Your give yourself permission to feel those feelings.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But also
You
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Also give yourself permission to step out of it. When you're done.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean.
Donna Jochimsen: Don't say I do, I do.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, good, good, good.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So when we're just going to keep on pushing forward with you practicing mindfulness and eating healthy and the smoking thing and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, you've got a lot that you're doing going to, you know, Women for Women in sobriety. Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Or one more source right here.
Donna Jochimsen: my birthright.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And, you know, going to a meeting and again
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Taking a look at
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Evaluating people for a sponsorship.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, just sitting back and watching and listening and just paying attention and seeing if there's anybody that you just kind of you're attracted to. What were their life has has made it from where it was when they first got there, when people tell their story.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And when you find somebody evaluate whether or not their sponsor you know they're sponsoring. How many, how many years of sobriety. Do they have you know really kind of take a look all the way around, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Before. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, jump out there, oftentimes people will will say, Okay, I'm going to get a sponsor and they'll go to meetings and they'll grab somebody who has limited sobriety. Who hasn't worked the steps and their life is just barely
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Becoming manageable and that it can be utter chaos and turn you completely off from
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That have happened to me before.
I'll see you know
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: just evaluate and, you know, and listen, uh, you know, is what I recommend you do
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Before you take that leap.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And keep doing what you're doing, Donna. I mean, you're on, you know, this really huge awesome path right now, you know,
Donna Jochimsen: Well, I've been. I've been working at this. You know what I had bad month relapse before I came to bright heart.
Donna Jochimsen: I had been getting Suboxone at another group, but I my relapse happen. I'm not going to say totally because but partly because I was around people that were still basically using they were fudging our tasks or whatever, you know,
And
Donna Jochimsen: I should not ever be around people like that just
Donna Jochimsen: Don't you know I don't want to. So if
Donna Jochimsen: I left there and then then I
Donna Jochimsen: Had problems when I left. So I've been working at what I'm getting at is, I've been working at this for a while. I wasn't really, really good at it, but I've had a vision is
Donna Jochimsen: I'll say that vision of where I wanted to be okay.
Donna Jochimsen: I'm definitely not even close to being there. But, but I do have a vision of how to where I want to get to. And I'm finding new ways to get there.
Donna Jochimsen: So it's been very positive.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know when you when you the one statement that I learned
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: From self help groups was half measures to build us nothing.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you know, when I
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: When my experience has been that when you go in and you're introducing to you know you're engaging with other people, you can pretty much get a feeler right off the bat on whether or not they're doing it for the right reasons the wrong reasons.
Donna Jochimsen: You can you can
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, and really just just connecting with the ones that are there for the right reasons and not to please the courts or DHS or, you know, but really for themselves, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So identifying that you're the people that you're hanging around, you know, that's a big thing. Because now you know what to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Stay away from you know
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah. Yep.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, I think you're doing a great job. You know, I think that you definitely are doing a great job.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Anything that you want to work on more this week or staying in this in this learning put step by footstep capacity. Is that good enough for you or do you want to
Donna Jochimsen: Know that this is this is for me right this minute this is good. I
Donna Jochimsen: Okay, just quit smoking, and I've just joined a new group. I feel like I would like to settle into that a little bit, but
Donna Jochimsen: I'm going to continue working the mindfulness exercises and and you know, that is, that's my one of my goals is to get to where I'm just present in the past or worrying about the future.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay cuz I've
Donna Jochimsen: Heard of that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah. And that doesn't get us anywhere. But back in circles.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Just chasing our tail.
You know,
Donna Jochimsen: When I become emotionally unstable.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, yeah, yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Definitely something we become emotionally unstable.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I'm gonna let you out and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Just keep doing what you're doing. I will see you in group.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And we're just going to keep continue keeping this time.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Weekly. OK.
Donna Jochimsen: OK, yep, that's great.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Are you great week.
Donna Jochimsen: Have a great time on
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Best ok ok i will see you soon. Okay, bye.